research/deep-dives/qsbs-75m-expansion.md, before:

# QSBS $75M Expansion in HR119: The Ultimate Guide for Founders and Angels

## Executive Summary: This Changes Everything

HR119's Section 70431 transforms the Qualified Small Business Stock (QSBS) landscape:
- **Gross Asset Limit**: Increased from $50M to $75M (50% increase)
- **Per-Issuer Exclusion**: Jumps from $10M to $15M for new acquisitions
- **Holding Period**: Reduced to 3 years for partial exclusion
- **100% Exclusion**: Still available after 5 years
- **Inflation Adjustments**: Both limits indexed starting 2026

This is massive for startup founders and early investors. A $75M exit could now be completely tax-free.

## The Exact Legislative Text (Section 70431)

### Key Provisions from HR119:

**Line 7741-7744**: Section 70431 - "Expansion of qualified small business stock gain exclusion"

**Lines 7849-7851** - The $75M Gross Asset Test:
```
"(c) Increase in limit in aggregate gross assets.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 1202(d)(1) are each 
amended by striking "$50,000,000" and inserting "$75,000,000"."
```

**Lines 7817-7833** - Increased Per-Issuer Limits:
```
"(4) APPLICABLE DOLLAR LIMIT.—For purposes of paragraph (1)(A), 
the applicable dollar limit for any taxable year with respect to 
eligible gain from 1 or more dispositions by a taxpayer of 
qualified business stock of a corporation is—
(A) if such stock was acquired by the taxpayer on or before 
the applicable date, $10,000,000...
(B) if such stock was acquired by the taxpayer after the 
applicable date, $15,000,000..."
```

**Lines 7752-7778** - New Holding Period Structure:
```
Years stock held:    Applicable percentage:
3 years             50%
4 years             75%
5 years or more     100%
```

## How the 100% Capital Gains Exclusion Works

### The Magic Formula
1. **Invest** in qualifying small business stock
2. **Hold** for required period (3-5 years)
3. **Exit** with partial or full federal tax exemption
4. **Stack** with state QSBS benefits where available

### Exclusion Percentages by Holding Period:
- **3 years**: 50% exclusion (14% effective federal rate)
- **4 years**: 75% exclusion (7% effective federal rate)
- **5+ years**: 100% exclusion (0% federal tax!)

### No AMT Issues
The bill maintains that QSBS gains are NOT alternative minimum tax preference items for stock acquired after 2010.

## Calculating Tax Savings: $75M vs $50M Exit

### Scenario: Founder with $75M Exit After 5 Years

**Under Old Rules ($50M limit):**
- QSBS exempt: $10M (per-issuer limit)
- Taxable gain: $65M
- Federal tax (23.8%): $15.47M
- **After-tax proceeds: $59.53M**

**Under New Rules ($75M limit):**
- QSBS exempt: $15M (new per-issuer limit)
- Taxable gain: $60M
- Federal tax (23.8%): $14.28M
- **After-tax proceeds: $60.72M**

**Additional savings: $1.19M**

But here's the real kicker...

### The $75M Gross Asset Sweet Spot

Companies can now grow 50% larger before losing QSBS eligibility. This means:
- More runway for growth rounds
- Higher valuations while maintaining QSBS
- Larger exits fully covered by the exemption

**Example**: A company that raises at a $60M post-money valuation can still qualify (was impossible under old $50M limit).

## Structuring Strategies to Maximize Benefits

### 1. The "QSBS Stack" Strategy
Structure multiple entities to multiply the per-issuer exclusion:
```
Holding Company
├── OpCo 1 (Product Line A) - $15M exclusion
├── OpCo 2 (Product Line B) - $15M exclusion  
└── OpCo 3 (International) - $15M exclusion
Total potential exclusion: $45M
```

### 2. The "Rolling QSBS" Play
- Year 1: Invest in Company A
- Year 2: Invest in Company B
- Year 3: Invest in Company C
- Year 6: Exit Company A (100% exclusion)
- Year 7: Exit Company B (100% exclusion)
- Continuous tax-free exits!

### 3. The "Family Office Maximizer"
Each family member can claim their own $15M exclusion:
- Spouse 1: $15M exclusion
- Spouse 2: $15M exclusion
- Trust 1: $15M exclusion
- Trust 2: $15M exclusion
**Total family exclusion: $60M+**

### 4. The "Convertible Note Timing Hack"
- Invest via convertible note when company is small
- Convert to equity when gross assets approach $75M
- Lock in QSBS eligibility at conversion

## Rollover Provisions and Stacking Opportunities

### Section 1045 Rollover Magic
If you sell QSBS before 5 years, you can defer gains by rolling into new QSBS:
1. Sell QSBS held >6 months
2. Invest proceeds in new QSBS within 60 days
3. Tack holding periods together
4. Achieve 100% exclusion on combined holding period

### The Ultimate Stack:
1. **Federal QSBS**: 100% exclusion
2. **State QSBS**: Many states conform (CA doesn't)
3. **Opportunity Zones**: Layer with OZ for non-QSBS gains
4. **1031 Exchange**: For real property in the business
5. **Installment Sales**: Spread any taxable portion

## Why This Is Huge for Angels and Founders

### For Angel Investors:
- **Higher Returns**: $15M tax-free per company vs $10M
- **Bigger Deals**: Can invest in companies up to $75M valuation
- **Portfolio Approach**: Stack exclusions across multiple investments
- **Estate Planning**: Pass QSBS to heirs with stepped-up basis

### For Founders:
- **Delayed Dilution**: Grow to $75M before losing QSBS
- **Tax-Free Wealth**: First $15M of gains completely exempt
- **Secondary Sales**: Sell portions while maintaining QSBS
- **Acquisition Currency**: Use QSBS stock for tax-free M&A

## Practical Examples

### Example 1: SaaS Founder Exit
- Founded company with $100K investment
- Raised Series A at $30M valuation
- Raised Series B at $70M valuation (still under $75M!)
- Sold company for $150M after 5 years
- Founder's 10% stake = $15M
- **Federal tax: $0 (100% QSBS exclusion)**
- Without QSBS: Would owe $3.57M

### Example 2: Angel Portfolio Strategy
Angel invests $250K each in 10 startups:
- 7 fail (tax loss: $1.75M)
- 2 return 5x ($2.5M gain each)
- 1 returns 50x ($12.5M gain)
- Total gains: $17.5M
- QSBS exclusion: $15M
- Taxable gain: $2.5M - $1.75M loss = $750K
- **Effective tax rate: <2%**

### Example 3: Strategic Rollover Chain
- Year 1: Invest $1M in Startup A
- Year 3: Startup A acquired for $5M
- Roll $5M into Startup B (Section 1045)
- Year 6: Startup B exits for $20M
- **Total holding period: 6 years**
- **Tax on $19M gain: $0**

## Key Qualification Rules

### Company Requirements:
1. **Domestic C-corp** (not LLC or S-corp)
2. **Gross assets ≤ $75M** when stock issued
3. **Active business** (80% of assets in operations)
4. **Qualified trade** (not services like law, health, finance)
5. **Original issuance** (not secondary purchase)

### Investor Requirements:
1. **Non-corporate** taxpayer
2. **5-year holding** for 100% exclusion
3. **Original issuance** acquisition
4. **Per-issuer limits** apply

## Action Items for Investors

### Immediate Steps:
1. **Review portfolio** for QSBS eligibility
2. **Document** gross assets at investment date
3. **Track** holding periods carefully
4. **Plan** exits around 5-year marks
5. **Structure** new investments for QSBS

### Strategic Considerations:
- **Accelerate** investments before law changes
- **Restructure** LLCs as C-corps if possible
- **Time** exercises of options strategically
- **Layer** with other tax strategies
- **Consult** QSBS-specialized tax advisors

## Inflation Adjustments: The Gift That Keeps Giving

Starting in 2026:
- $15M per-issuer limit indexed to inflation
- $75M gross asset test indexed to inflation
- Rounded to nearest $10,000

**Projection**: At 3% inflation, limits in 2036:
- Per-issuer: ~$20M
- Gross assets: ~$100M

## The Bottom Line

HR119's QSBS expansion is the most founder-friendly tax change in years:
- **50% more headroom** for company growth
- **50% higher** tax-free exit potential  
- **Shorter** holding periods for partial benefits
- **Inflation protection** maintains value over time

For a founder or early employee with a $75M exit after 5 years, this change alone could save **$3-5 million** in federal taxes.

**Remember**: QSBS is complex. Always consult qualified tax professionals for your specific situation. But with proper planning, this expansion opens unprecedented opportunities for tax-free wealth creation in the startup ecosystem.

---

*Note: This analysis is based on HR119 as introduced. Final legislation may differ. State tax treatment varies - California notably does not conform to federal QSBS benefits.*

Commit message:

Add research navigation system with frontmatter, JSON index, and master guides
- Added YAML frontmatter to all 28 research files for better discoverability
- Created opportunities.json searchable index with stats
- Built NYC Investor Quick Start Guide with top 10 opportunities
- Created Master Index for easy navigation of all research
- Prepared foundation for future GraphRAG implementation

Next steps: Deploy as static site, implement GraphRAG for complex queries

research/deep-dives/qsbs-75m-expansion.md, after:

---
title: "QSBS $75M Expansion in HR119: The Ultimate Guide for Founders and Angels"
opportunity_id: "DD-GEN-72"
sector: "General"
role: "General"
capital_level: "Variable"
region: "National"
summary: "*Note: This analysis is based on HR119 as introduced. Final legislation may differ. State tax treatment varies - California notably does not conform to federal QSBS benefits.*..."
tags:
  - "Funding"
  - "Opportunity Zones"
  - "QSBS"
  - "Tax Benefits"
---
# QSBS $75M Expansion in HR119: The Ultimate Guide for Founders and Angels

## Executive Summary: This Changes Everything

HR119's Section 70431 transforms the Qualified Small Business Stock (QSBS) landscape:
- **Gross Asset Limit**: Increased from $50M to $75M (50% increase)
- **Per-Issuer Exclusion**: Jumps from $10M to $15M for new acquisitions
- **Holding Period**: Reduced to 3 years for partial exclusion
- **100% Exclusion**: Still available after 5 years
- **Inflation Adjustments**: Both limits indexed starting 2026

This is massive for startup founders and early investors. A $75M exit could now be completely tax-free.

## The Exact Legislative Text (Section 70431)

### Key Provisions from HR119:

**Line 7741-7744**: Section 70431 - "Expansion of qualified small business stock gain exclusion"

**Lines 7849-7851** - The $75M Gross Asset Test:
```
"(c) Increase in limit in aggregate gross assets.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 1202(d)(1) are each 
amended by striking "$50,000,000" and inserting "$75,000,000"."
```

**Lines 7817-7833** - Increased Per-Issuer Limits:
```
"(4) APPLICABLE DOLLAR LIMIT.—For purposes of paragraph (1)(A), 
the applicable dollar limit for any taxable year with respect to 
eligible gain from 1 or more dispositions by a taxpayer of 
qualified business stock of a corporation is—
(A) if such stock was acquired by the taxpayer on or before 
the applicable date, $10,000,000...
(B) if such stock was acquired by the taxpayer after the 
applicable date, $15,000,000..."
```

**Lines 7752-7778** - New Holding Period Structure:
```
Years stock held:    Applicable percentage:
3 years             50%
4 years             75%
5 years or more     100%
```

## How the 100% Capital Gains Exclusion Works

### The Magic Formula
1. **Invest** in qualifying small business stock
2. **Hold** for required period (3-5 years)
3. **Exit** with partial or full federal tax exemption
4. **Stack** with state QSBS benefits where available

### Exclusion Percentages by Holding Period:
- **3 years**: 50% exclusion (14% effective federal rate)
- **4 years**: 75% exclusion (7% effective federal rate)
- **5+ years**: 100% exclusion (0% federal tax!)

### No AMT Issues
The bill maintains that QSBS gains are NOT alternative minimum tax preference items for stock acquired after 2010.

## Calculating Tax Savings: $75M vs $50M Exit

### Scenario: Founder with $75M Exit After 5 Years

**Under Old Rules ($50M limit):**
- QSBS exempt: $10M (per-issuer limit)
- Taxable gain: $65M
- Federal tax (23.8%): $15.47M
- **After-tax proceeds: $59.53M**

**Under New Rules ($75M limit):**
- QSBS exempt: $15M (new per-issuer limit)
- Taxable gain: $60M
- Federal tax (23.8%): $14.28M
- **After-tax proceeds: $60.72M**

**Additional savings: $1.19M**

But here's the real kicker...

### The $75M Gross Asset Sweet Spot

Companies can now grow 50% larger before losing QSBS eligibility. This means:
- More runway for growth rounds
- Higher valuations while maintaining QSBS
- Larger exits fully covered by the exemption

**Example**: A company that raises at a $60M post-money valuation can still qualify (was impossible under old $50M limit).

## Structuring Strategies to Maximize Benefits

### 1. The "QSBS Stack" Strategy
Structure multiple entities to multiply the per-issuer exclusion:
```
Holding Company
├── OpCo 1 (Product Line A) - $15M exclusion
├── OpCo 2 (Product Line B) - $15M exclusion  
└── OpCo 3 (International) - $15M exclusion
Total potential exclusion: $45M
```

### 2. The "Rolling QSBS" Play
- Year 1: Invest in Company A
- Year 2: Invest in Company B
- Year 3: Invest in Company C
- Year 6: Exit Company A (100% exclusion)
- Year 7: Exit Company B (100% exclusion)
- Continuous tax-free exits!

### 3. The "Family Office Maximizer"
Each family member can claim their own $15M exclusion:
- Spouse 1: $15M exclusion
- Spouse 2: $15M exclusion
- Trust 1: $15M exclusion
- Trust 2: $15M exclusion
**Total family exclusion: $60M+**

### 4. The "Convertible Note Timing Hack"
- Invest via convertible note when company is small
- Convert to equity when gross assets approach $75M
- Lock in QSBS eligibility at conversion

## Rollover Provisions and Stacking Opportunities

### Section 1045 Rollover Magic
If you sell QSBS before 5 years, you can defer gains by rolling into new QSBS:
1. Sell QSBS held >6 months
2. Invest proceeds in new QSBS within 60 days
3. Tack holding periods together
4. Achieve 100% exclusion on combined holding period

### The Ultimate Stack:
1. **Federal QSBS**: 100% exclusion
2. **State QSBS**: Many states conform (CA doesn't)
3. **Opportunity Zones**: Layer with OZ for non-QSBS gains
4. **1031 Exchange**: For real property in the business
5. **Installment Sales**: Spread any taxable portion

## Why This Is Huge for Angels and Founders

### For Angel Investors:
- **Higher Returns**: $15M tax-free per company vs $10M
- **Bigger Deals**: Can invest in companies up to $75M valuation
- **Portfolio Approach**: Stack exclusions across multiple investments
- **Estate Planning**: Pass QSBS to heirs with stepped-up basis

### For Founders:
- **Delayed Dilution**: Grow to $75M before losing QSBS
- **Tax-Free Wealth**: First $15M of gains completely exempt
- **Secondary Sales**: Sell portions while maintaining QSBS
- **Acquisition Currency**: Use QSBS stock for tax-free M&A

## Practical Examples

### Example 1: SaaS Founder Exit
- Founded company with $100K investment
- Raised Series A at $30M valuation
- Raised Series B at $70M valuation (still under $75M!)
- Sold company for $150M after 5 years
- Founder's 10% stake = $15M
- **Federal tax: $0 (100% QSBS exclusion)**
- Without QSBS: Would owe $3.57M

### Example 2: Angel Portfolio Strategy
Angel invests $250K each in 10 startups:
- 7 fail (tax loss: $1.75M)
- 2 return 5x ($2.5M gain each)
- 1 returns 50x ($12.5M gain)
- Total gains: $17.5M
- QSBS exclusion: $15M
- Taxable gain: $2.5M - $1.75M loss = $750K
- **Effective tax rate: <2%**

### Example 3: Strategic Rollover Chain
- Year 1: Invest $1M in Startup A
- Year 3: Startup A acquired for $5M
- Roll $5M into Startup B (Section 1045)
- Year 6: Startup B exits for $20M
- **Total holding period: 6 years**
- **Tax on $19M gain: $0**

## Key Qualification Rules

### Company Requirements:
1. **Domestic C-corp** (not LLC or S-corp)
2. **Gross assets ≤ $75M** when stock issued
3. **Active business** (80% of assets in operations)
4. **Qualified trade** (not services like law, health, finance)
5. **Original issuance** (not secondary purchase)

### Investor Requirements:
1. **Non-corporate** taxpayer
2. **5-year holding** for 100% exclusion
3. **Original issuance** acquisition
4. **Per-issuer limits** apply

## Action Items for Investors

### Immediate Steps:
1. **Review portfolio** for QSBS eligibility
2. **Document** gross assets at investment date
3. **Track** holding periods carefully
4. **Plan** exits around 5-year marks
5. **Structure** new investments for QSBS

### Strategic Considerations:
- **Accelerate** investments before law changes
- **Restructure** LLCs as C-corps if possible
- **Time** exercises of options strategically
- **Layer** with other tax strategies
- **Consult** QSBS-specialized tax advisors

## Inflation Adjustments: The Gift That Keeps Giving

Starting in 2026:
- $15M per-issuer limit indexed to inflation
- $75M gross asset test indexed to inflation
- Rounded to nearest $10,000

**Projection**: At 3% inflation, limits in 2036:
- Per-issuer: ~$20M
- Gross assets: ~$100M

## The Bottom Line

HR119's QSBS expansion is the most founder-friendly tax change in years:
- **50% more headroom** for company growth
- **50% higher** tax-free exit potential  
- **Shorter** holding periods for partial benefits
- **Inflation protection** maintains value over time

For a founder or early employee with a $75M exit after 5 years, this change alone could save **$3-5 million** in federal taxes.

**Remember**: QSBS is complex. Always consult qualified tax professionals for your specific situation. But with proper planning, this expansion opens unprecedented opportunities for tax-free wealth creation in the startup ecosystem.

---

*Note: This analysis is based on HR119 as introduced. Final legislation may differ. State tax treatment varies - California notably does not conform to federal QSBS benefits.*
